#饥饿和公平（Starvation and Fairness）

如果一个线程由于CPU时间全部被其他线程抢占而得不到CPU时间，这就称为**饥饿（Starvation）**。这个线程因为得不到CPU机会而“饿死（starved to death）"。解决饥饿的方案称为**公平（Fairness）**--所有的线程都能公平地获得CPU时间。

##Java中产生饥饿的原因

在Java中，下面三种常见原因会导致饥饿：

* 高优先级的线程抢占了所有的CPU时间。
* 线程陷入无止境地等待进入同步块状态，因为其他线程总是能够在它之前获得进入同步块的机会。
* 线程陷入无止境地等待被唤醒（调用了对象的wait()方法）状态，因为其他线程总能够持续获得唤醒机会而不是这个线程。

###高优先级线程抢占了所有的CPU时间

你可以为每个线程设置优先级。高优先级的线程能够获得更多的CPU时间。优先级可以设置为1-10之间。这些优先级值的解释根据操作系统的差异而有所不同。对于大部分应用程式来说，你最好不要改变其优先级值。

###线程陷入无止境地等待进入同步块状态

Java同步代码块是另一个能够导致饥饿的原因。Java同步代码块不能够保证进入同步块线程的顺序。这意味着，理论上存在可以陷入无限等待进入同步块的线程。线程会因为得不到任何CPU机会而饿死。

### 线程陷入无止境地等待被唤醒（调用了对象的wait()方法）状态，

如果多个线程都调用了同一个对象的`wait()`方法而，当一个线程调用这个对象的`notify()`方法后，并不能确定哪个调用了`wait()`方法的线程能够被唤醒。它可以是这些线程的任意一个。如果一个线程由于唤醒机会被其他线程抢占而一直无法被唤醒，这是非常危险的。

##在Java中的公平性实现（Implementing Fairness in Java）

While it is not possible to implement 100% fairness in Java we can still implement our synchronization constructs to increase fairness between threads.

First lets study a simple synchronized code block:

public class Synchronizer{

  public synchronized void doSynchronized(){
    //do a lot of work which takes a long time
  }

}
If more than one thread call the doSynchronized() method, some of them will be blocked until the first thread granted access has left the method. If more than one thread are blocked waiting for access there is no guarantee about which thread is granted access next.

Using Locks Instead of Synchronized Blocks

To increase the fairness of waiting threads first we will change the code block to be guarded by a lock rather than a synchronized block:

public class Synchronizer{
  Lock lock = new Lock();

  public void doSynchronized() throws InterruptedException{
    this.lock.lock();
      //critical section, do a lot of work which takes a long time
    this.lock.unlock();
  }

}
Notice how the doSynchronized() method is no longer declared synchronized. Instead the critical section is guarded by the lock.lock() and lock.unlock() calls.

A simple implementation of the Lock class could look like this:

public class Lock{
  private boolean isLocked      = false;
  private Thread  lockingThread = null;

  public synchronized void lock() throws InterruptedException{
    while(isLocked){
      wait();
    }
    isLocked      = true;
    lockingThread = Thread.currentThread();
  }

  public synchronized void unlock(){
    if(this.lockingThread != Thread.currentThread()){
      throw new IllegalMonitorStateException(
        "Calling thread has not locked this lock");
    }
    isLocked      = false;
    lockingThread = null;
    notify();
  }
}
If you look at the Synchronizer class above and look into this Lock implementation you will notice that threads are now blocked trying to access the lock() method, if more than one thread calls lock() simultanously. Second, if the lock is locked, the threads are blocked in the wait() call inside the while(isLocked) loop in the lock() method. Remember that a thread calling wait() releases the synchronization lock on the Lock instance, so threads waiting to enter lock() can now do so. The result is that multiple threads can end up having called wait() inside lock().

If you look back at the doSynchronized() method you will notice that the comment between lock() and unlock() states, that the code in between these two calls take a "long" time to execute. Let us further assume that this code takes long time to execute compared to entering the lock() method and calling wait() because the lock is locked. This means that the majority of the time waited to be able to lock the lock and enter the critical section is spent waiting in the wait() call inside the lock() method, not being blocked trying to enter the lock() method.

As stated earlier synchronized blocks makes no guarantees about what thread is being granted access if more than one thread is waiting to enter. Nor does wait() make any guarantees about what thread is awakened when notify() is called. So, the current version of the Lock class makes no different guarantees with respect to fairness than synchronized version of doSynchronized(). But we can change that.

The current version of the Lock class calls its own wait() method. If instead each thread calls wait() on a separate object, so that only one thread has called wait() on each object, the Lock class can decide which of these objects to call notify() on, thereby effectively selecting exactly what thread to awaken.

##公平锁（A Fair Lock）

Below is shown the previous Lock class turned into a fair lock called FairLock. You will notice that the implementation has changed a bit with respect to synchronization and wait() / notify() compared to the Lock class shown earlier.

Exactly how I arrived at this design beginning from the previous Lock class is a longer story involving several incremental design steps, each fixing the problem of the previous step: Nested Monitor Lockout, Slipped Conditions, and Missed Signals. That discussion is left out of this text to keep the text short, but each of the steps are discussed in the appropriate texts on the topic ( see the links above). What is important is, that every thread calling lock() is now queued, and only the first thread in the queue is allowed to lock the FairLock instance, if it is unlocked. All other threads are parked waiting until they reach the top of the queue.

public class FairLock {
    private boolean           isLocked       = false;
    private Thread            lockingThread  = null;
    private List<QueueObject> waitingThreads =
            new ArrayList<QueueObject>();

  public void lock() throws InterruptedException{
    QueueObject queueObject           = new QueueObject();
    boolean     isLockedForThisThread = true;
    synchronized(this){
        waitingThreads.add(queueObject);
    }

    while(isLockedForThisThread){
      synchronized(this){
        isLockedForThisThread =
            isLocked || waitingThreads.get(0) != queueObject;
        if(!isLockedForThisThread){
          isLocked = true;
           waitingThreads.remove(queueObject);
           lockingThread = Thread.currentThread();
           return;
         }
      }
      try{
        queueObject.doWait();
      }catch(InterruptedException e){
        synchronized(this) { waitingThreads.remove(queueObject); }
        throw e;
      }
    }
  }

  public synchronized void unlock(){
    if(this.lockingThread != Thread.currentThread()){
      throw new IllegalMonitorStateException(
        "Calling thread has not locked this lock");
    }
    isLocked      = false;
    lockingThread = null;
    if(waitingThreads.size() > 0){
      waitingThreads.get(0).doNotify();
    }
  }
}
public class QueueObject {

  private boolean isNotified = false;

  public synchronized void doWait() throws InterruptedException {
    while(!isNotified){
        this.wait();
    }
    this.isNotified = false;
  }

  public synchronized void doNotify() {
    this.isNotified = true;
    this.notify();
  }

  public boolean equals(Object o) {
    return this == o;
  }
}
First you might notice that the lock() method is no longer declared synchronized. Instead only the blocks necessary to synchronize are nested inside synchronized blocks.

FairLock creates a new instance of QueueObject and enqueue it for each thread calling lock(). The thread calling unlock() will take the top QueueObject in the queue and call doNotify() on it, to awaken the thread waiting on that object. This way only one waiting thread is awakened at a time, rather than all waiting threads. This part is what governs the fairness of the FairLock.

Notice how the state of the lock is still tested and set within the same synchronized block to avoid slipped conditions.

Also notice that the QueueObject is really a semaphore. The doWait() and doNotify() methods store the signal internally in the QueueObject. This is done to avoid missed signals caused by a thread being preempted just before calling queueObject.doWait(), by another thread which calls unlock() and thereby queueObject.doNotify(). The queueObject.doWait() call is placed outside the synchronized(this) block to avoid nested monitor lockout, so another thread can actually call unlock() when no thread is executing inside the synchronized(this) block in lock() method.

Finally, notice how the queueObject.doWait() is called inside a try - catch block. In case an InterruptedException is thrown the thread leaves the lock() method, and we need to dequeue it.

##性能（A Note on Performance）

If you compare the Lock and FairLock classes you will notice that there is somewhat more going on inside the lock() and unlock() in the FairLock class. This extra code will cause the FairLock to be a sligtly slower synchronization mechanism than Lock. How much impact this will have on your application depends on how long time the code in the critical section guarded by the FairLock takes to execute. The longer this takes to execute, the less significant the added overhead of the synchronizer is. It does of course also depend on how often this code is called.