
#资源竞争和临界区（Race Conditions and Critical Sections）

在一个应用程序中运行多个线程这本身不会导致什么问题。问题在于多个线程同时对同一资源进行存取，例如同样的内存空间（变量、数组或对象），系统资源（数据库，文件系统等等）。如果是多个线程对同一资源进行读取，则不会有任何问题。

以下的代码，如果有多个线程同时执行，则会导致问题：

```Java
public class Counter {

   protected long count = 0;

   public void add(long value){
       this.count = this.count + value;
   }
}
```


Imagine if two threads, A and B, are executing the add method on the same instance of the Counter class. There is no way to know when the operating system switches between the two threads. The code is not executed as a single instruction by the Java virtual machine. Rather it is executed along the lines of:

```
get this.count from memory into register
add value to register
write register to memory
```

Observe what happens with the following mixed execution of threads A and B:

```
this.count = 0;
A:  reads this.count into a register (0)
B:  reads this.count into a register (0)
B:  adds value 2 to register
B:  writes register value (2) back to memory. this.count now equals 2
A:  adds value 3 to register
A:  writes register value (3) back to memory. this.count now equals 3
 ```
 
The two threads added the values 2 and 3 to the counter. Thus the value should have been 5 after the two threads complete execution. However, since the execution of the two threads is interleaved, both threads read the value 0 from memory. Then they add their individual values, 2 and 3, to the value, and write the result back to memory. Instead of 5, the value left in this.count will be the value written by the last thread to write its value. In the above case it is thread A, but it could as well have been thread B. Without proper thread synchronization mechanisms there is no way to know exactly how the thread execution is interleaved.

## Race Conditions & Critical Sections

The situation where two threads compete for the same resource, where the sequence in which the resource is accessed is significant, is called race conditions. A code section that leads to race conditions is called a critical section. In the previous example the method add() is a critical section, leading to race conditions. Race conditions can be avoided by proper thread synchronization in critical sections.

