#07.线程安全和不变性

只有当多个线程访问共享资源，并且一个线程或多个线程对资源进行写操作时，才会发生资源竞争。如果多个线程同时只对共享资源进行读操作，则不会发生资源竞争。

我们可以通过把共享对象设置为不可变以至于让线程不能对对象进行改动，从而保证了线程安全。如下面这个例子：

```Java
public class ImmutableValue{

  private int value = 0;

  public ImmutableValue(int value){
    this.value = value;
  }

  public int getValue(){
    return this.value;
  }
}
```

Notice how the value for the ImmutableValue instance is passed in the constructor. Notice also how there is no setter method. Once an ImmutableValue instance is created you cannot change its value. It is immutable. You can read it however, using the getValue() method.

If you need to perform operations on the ImmutableValue instance you can do so by returning a new instance with the value resulting from the operation. Here is an example of an add operation:

public class ImmutableValue{

  private int value = 0;

  public ImmutableValue(int value){
    this.value = value;
  }

  public int getValue(){
    return this.value;
  }

  
      public ImmutableValue add(int valueToAdd){
      return new ImmutableValue(this.value + valueToAdd);
      }
  
}
Notice how the add() method returns a new ImmutableValue instance with the result of the add operation, rather than adding the value to itself.

##The Reference is not Thread Safe!

It is important to remember, that even if an object is immutable and thereby thread safe, the reference to this object may not be thread safe. Look at this example:

public class Calculator{
  private ImmutableValue currentValue = null;

  public ImmutableValue getValue(){
    return currentValue;
  }

  public void setValue(ImmutableValue newValue){
    this.currentValue = newValue;
  }

  public void add(int newValue){
    this.currentValue = this.currentValue.add(newValue);
  }
}
The Calculator class holds a reference to an ImmutableValue instance. Notice how it is possible to change that reference through both the setValue() and add() methods. Therefore, even if the Calculator class uses an immutable object internally, it is not itself immutable, and therefore not thread safe. In other words: The ImmutableValue class is thread safe, but the use of it is not. This is something to keep in mind when trying to achieve thread safety through immutability.

To make the Calculator class thread safe you could have declared the getValue(), setValue(), and add() methods synchronized. That would have done the trick.
